docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: Dynatrace MCP Server - Tool Documentation
description: Complete guide to using the Dynatrace Model Context Protocol Server tools
---

Welcome to the comprehensive documentation for the Dynatrace Model Context Protocol (MCP) Server. This server provides a powerful set of tools to interact with your Dynatrace environment through natural language prompts.

## Overview

The Dynatrace MCP Server enables you to:
- Query and analyze your monitoring data using natural language
- Automate incident response and notifications
- Manage dashboards and documents
- Investigate problems and vulnerabilities
- Execute custom analytics and reporting

## Quick Start

To get started, ensure your MCP server is properly configured with:
- Valid Dynatrace OAuth credentials
- Required API scopes and permissions
- Slack connector (for notification tools)

## Available Tools

### 🔧 Environment & Setup Tools

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**get_environment_info**](get_environment_info.md) | Get information about your connected Dynatrace environment | Environment verification, connection testing |

### 🚨 Problem & Incident Management

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**list_problems**](list_problems.md) | List all operational problems in your environment | Health checks, incident overview |
| [**get_problem_details**](get_problem_details.md) | Get detailed information about specific problems | Incident analysis, root cause investigation |
| [**create_workflow_for_notification**](create_workflow_for_notification.md) | Create automated notification workflows | Incident response automation |
| [**make_workflow_public**](make_workflow_public.md) | Make private workflows accessible to teams | Workflow sharing and collaboration |

### 🔒 Security & Vulnerability Management

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**list_vulnerabilities**](list_vulnerabilities.md) | List all security vulnerabilities detected | Security assessment, vulnerability overview |
| [**get_vulnerability_details**](get_vulnerability_details.md) | Get detailed vulnerability information | Security analysis, risk assessment |

### 🏢 Entity & Infrastructure Management

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**find_entity_by_name**](find_entity_by_name.md) | Find entity IDs by searching with names | Entity lookup, ID resolution |
| [**get_entity_details**](get_entity_details.md) | Get comprehensive entity information | Infrastructure analysis, entity investigation |
| [**get_ownership**](get_ownership.md) | Get ownership information for entities | Team identification, responsibility mapping |

### 📊 Data Analysis & Querying

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**generate_dql_from_natural_language**](generate_dql_from_natural_language.md) | Convert natural language to DQL queries | Query creation, data exploration |
| [**verify_dql**](verify_dql.md) | Validate DQL query syntax | Query validation, syntax checking |
| [**execute_dql**](execute_dql.md) | Execute DQL queries and get results | Data analysis, custom reporting |
| [**explain_dql_in_natural_language**](explain_dql_in_natural_language.md) | Explain DQL queries in plain English | Learning, documentation, code review |

### 📝 Logs & Monitoring Data

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**get_logs_for_entity**](get_logs_for_entity.md) | Retrieve logs for specific entities | Troubleshooting, log analysis |
| [**get_kubernetes_events**](get_kubernetes_events.md) | Get Kubernetes cluster events | Container troubleshooting, K8s monitoring |

### 📈 Dashboards & Reporting

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**create_dashboard**](create_dashboard.md) | Create dashboards from JSON templates | Dashboard deployment, visualization setup |
| [**share_document_env**](share_document_env.md) | Share documents across environments | Cross-environment collaboration |
| [**direct_share_document**](direct_share_document.md) | Share documents with specific users | Team collaboration, document sharing |
| [**bulk_delete_dashboards**](bulk_delete_dashboards.md) | Delete multiple documents at once | Cleanup, environment maintenance |

### 💬 Communication & Notifications

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**send_slack_message**](send_slack_message.md) | Send messages to Slack channels | Team notifications, incident communication |

### 🔧 Advanced & Custom Operations

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**execute_typescript**](execute_typescript.md) | Execute custom TypeScript code | Custom logic, data processing |
| [**chat_with_davis_copilot**](chat_with_davis_copilot.md) | Interactive AI assistant for Dynatrace | General guidance, troubleshooting help |

## Usage Patterns

### Common Workflows

#### 🔍 **Incident Investigation**
1. `list_problems` → `get_problem_details` → `get_entity_details` → `get_logs_for_entity` → `send_slack_message`

#### 🛡️ **Security Response**
1. `list_vulnerabilities` → `get_vulnerability_details` → `get_ownership` → `send_slack_message`

#### 📊 **Data Analysis**
1. `generate_dql_from_natural_language` → `verify_dql` → `execute_dql`

#### 📈 **Dashboard Management**
1. `create_dashboard` → `share_document_env` or `direct_share_document`

## Best Practices

### 🎯 **Effective Prompting**
- Be specific about what you want to achieve
- Include time ranges when relevant
- Specify entity names or IDs when available
- Use exact names as they appear in Dynatrace

### 🔗 **Tool Chaining**
- Use entity IDs from one tool as inputs to others
- Validate DQL queries before execution
- Share results via Slack for team collaboration

### 🔒 **Security & Permissions**
- Ensure proper OAuth scopes are configured
- Be careful with document sharing permissions
- Review workflow access before making public

## Getting Help

For additional assistance:
- Use the `chat_with_davis_copilot` tool for general Dynatrace guidance
- Refer to individual tool documentation for specific use cases
- Check the [Dynatrace documentation](https://dt-url.net/help) for platform-specific guidance

## Prerequisites

Before using these tools, ensure you have:
- ✅ Valid Dynatrace environment access
- ✅ OAuth client credentials configured
- ✅ Required API permissions/scopes
- ✅ Slack connector configured (for notification tools)
- ✅ MCP server running and connected

---

**Note**: This documentation covers the Dynatrace MCP Server v1.x. Some tools may require specific Dynatrace licenses or features to function properly.

Commit message:

Switch to Hacker theme and update layouts
Replaced Minima with the Hacker theme using jekyll-remote-theme, updated _config.yml, and removed Minima-specific configuration. Added new default and page layouts for Hacker theme, migrated and backed up tool and home layouts, and introduced custom Hacker theme SCSS for Dynatrace branding. Updated documentation index to use the new layout and removed the old index.html in favor of index.md. Added a theme preview HTML file.

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Documentation
description: Complete documentation for the Dynatrace MCP Server
---

## 📚 Documentation Hub

Welcome to the comprehensive documentation for the Dynatrace MCP Server. This documentation will help you get started, understand the available tools, and integrate the server into your workflow.

## Overview

The Dynatrace MCP Server enables you to:
- Query and analyze your monitoring data using natural language
- Automate incident response and notifications
- Manage dashboards and documents
- Investigate problems and vulnerabilities
- Execute custom analytics and reporting

## Quick Start

To get started, ensure your MCP server is properly configured with:
- Valid Dynatrace OAuth credentials
- Required API scopes and permissions
- Slack connector (for notification tools)

## Available Tools

### 🔧 Environment & Setup Tools

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**get_environment_info**](get_environment_info.md) | Get information about your connected Dynatrace environment | Environment verification, connection testing |

### 🚨 Problem & Incident Management

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**list_problems**](list_problems.md) | List all operational problems in your environment | Health checks, incident overview |
| [**get_problem_details**](get_problem_details.md) | Get detailed information about specific problems | Incident analysis, root cause investigation |
| [**create_workflow_for_notification**](create_workflow_for_notification.md) | Create automated notification workflows | Incident response automation |
| [**make_workflow_public**](make_workflow_public.md) | Make private workflows accessible to teams | Workflow sharing and collaboration |

### 🔒 Security & Vulnerability Management

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**list_vulnerabilities**](list_vulnerabilities.md) | List all security vulnerabilities detected | Security assessment, vulnerability overview |
| [**get_vulnerability_details**](get_vulnerability_details.md) | Get detailed vulnerability information | Security analysis, risk assessment |

### 🏢 Entity & Infrastructure Management

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**find_entity_by_name**](find_entity_by_name.md) | Find entity IDs by searching with names | Entity lookup, ID resolution |
| [**get_entity_details**](get_entity_details.md) | Get comprehensive entity information | Infrastructure analysis, entity investigation |
| [**get_ownership**](get_ownership.md) | Get ownership information for entities | Team identification, responsibility mapping |

### 📊 Data Analysis & Querying

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**generate_dql_from_natural_language**](generate_dql_from_natural_language.md) | Convert natural language to DQL queries | Query creation, data exploration |
| [**verify_dql**](verify_dql.md) | Validate DQL query syntax | Query validation, syntax checking |
| [**execute_dql**](execute_dql.md) | Execute DQL queries and get results | Data analysis, custom reporting |
| [**explain_dql_in_natural_language**](explain_dql_in_natural_language.md) | Explain DQL queries in plain English | Learning, documentation, code review |

### 📝 Logs & Monitoring Data

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**get_logs_for_entity**](get_logs_for_entity.md) | Retrieve logs for specific entities | Troubleshooting, log analysis |
| [**get_kubernetes_events**](get_kubernetes_events.md) | Get Kubernetes cluster events | Container troubleshooting, K8s monitoring |

### 📈 Dashboards & Reporting

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**create_dashboard**](create_dashboard.md) | Create dashboards from JSON templates | Dashboard deployment, visualization setup |
| [**share_document_env**](share_document_env.md) | Share documents across environments | Cross-environment collaboration |
| [**direct_share_document**](direct_share_document.md) | Share documents with specific users | Team collaboration, document sharing |
| [**bulk_delete_dashboards**](bulk_delete_dashboards.md) | Delete multiple documents at once | Cleanup, environment maintenance |

### 💬 Communication & Notifications

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**send_slack_message**](send_slack_message.md) | Send messages to Slack channels | Team notifications, incident communication |

### 🔧 Advanced & Custom Operations

| Tool | Description | Use Case |
|------|-------------|----------|
| [**execute_typescript**](execute_typescript.md) | Execute custom TypeScript code | Custom logic, data processing |
| [**chat_with_davis_copilot**](chat_with_davis_copilot.md) | Interactive AI assistant for Dynatrace | General guidance, troubleshooting help |

## Usage Patterns

### Common Workflows

#### 🔍 **Incident Investigation**
1. `list_problems` → `get_problem_details` → `get_entity_details` → `get_logs_for_entity` → `send_slack_message`

#### 🛡️ **Security Response**
1. `list_vulnerabilities` → `get_vulnerability_details` → `get_ownership` → `send_slack_message`

#### 📊 **Data Analysis**
1. `generate_dql_from_natural_language` → `verify_dql` → `execute_dql`

#### 📈 **Dashboard Management**
1. `create_dashboard` → `share_document_env` or `direct_share_document`

## Best Practices

### 🎯 **Effective Prompting**
- Be specific about what you want to achieve
- Include time ranges when relevant
- Specify entity names or IDs when available
- Use exact names as they appear in Dynatrace

### 🔗 **Tool Chaining**
- Use entity IDs from one tool as inputs to others
- Validate DQL queries before execution
- Share results via Slack for team collaboration

### 🔒 **Security & Permissions**
- Ensure proper OAuth scopes are configured
- Be careful with document sharing permissions
- Review workflow access before making public

## Getting Help

For additional assistance:
- Use the `chat_with_davis_copilot` tool for general Dynatrace guidance
- Refer to individual tool documentation for specific use cases
- Check the [Dynatrace documentation](https://dt-url.net/help) for platform-specific guidance

## Prerequisites

Before using these tools, ensure you have:
- ✅ Valid Dynatrace environment access
- ✅ OAuth client credentials configured
- ✅ Required API permissions/scopes
- ✅ Slack connector configured (for notification tools)
- ✅ MCP server running and connected

---

**Note**: This documentation covers the Dynatrace MCP Server v1.x. Some tools may require specific Dynatrace licenses or features to function properly.
